# CONTRIBUTING

## Before you start

Please ensure that you have read the following documents:

* ``docs/instructions/instructions.pdf``

* ``README.md``

* ``docs/planning.md``

## Code Organisation

Necessary instructions and relevant documents are placed under ``docs/``.

All code are placed under ``src/``. All other assets are generated by Webpack.

DO NOT modify anything beyond ``src/`` unless you have consulted the appropriate individual(s).

## Setting up Git

From your local machine, tell git who you are:

```bash
git config --global user.name [YOUR NAME]
git config --global user.email [YOUR UNI EMAIL]
```

Using ``git pull --rebase``

Prefer ``--rebase`` git pull merging strategy over default merge commit. See [here](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/syncing/git-pull). In other words, you should run ``git pull --rebase``.

## Setting up your development environment

To contribute, fork the current repository and install all the npm dependencies. You will need to install [git](http://git-scm.com/) and [node](http://nodejs.org/).

```bash
git clone https://gitlab.cs.st-andrews.ac.uk/cs5003group-c/project-code.git
cd project-code
npm install
git checkout develop # Please only commit to develop branch
```

All developers should commit to ``develop`` branch. Only project manager is allowed to merge code to ``master``.

To ensure that you are on the correct branch, type ``git branch`` to check whether you are on the correct development branch.

For those who do not have access to eduoram off-campus, you can access and make changes to the repository via SSH. Instructions on setting this up could be found on ``/cs/studres/CS5003/Practicals/GitLab and SSH.pdf``.

## Git Commit messages

Please conform to the following:

* Use present tenses
* Use the imperative mood ('Move cursor to…' NOT 'Moves cursor to…')
* Limit first line of the commit message to 72 characters or less

## Starting new development cycle

When you start a new development cycle, make sure you are working on *the most recent* version on your branch. In other words, every time you start writing code, always run the following code:

```bash
git fetch origin
```

Always remember this development mantra, [Commit Often, Perfect Later, Publish Once](https://sethrobertson.github.io/GitBestPractices/)

## Good Practices

Here are some good practices you might want to follow:

* Don't commit half-done work.
* Commit small, but commit often.
* Commit related changes.

## Running Unit tests

In this Project, we will be using [jest](https://jestjs.io/) for unit testing. Please ensure that all your code passes the appropriate unit tests before pushing.

## Hot Module Replacement

We have set up a [hot module replacement](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/hot-module-replacement/) in our development build that allows you to add, remove, or change modules while the application is running without the need of a full reload. This speeds up our development process and make life easier for everyone.

## JavaScript Style

All style must adhere to the customised Google JavaScript Style. For more details, see [Google JS Style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html).

Customised Elements:

* Use tabs instead of spaces (This is non-negotiable)

* JSDocs are disabled for linting purposes

Other important elements:

* Class name must start with a capital letter

* Block indentation should be 4 spaces

* Use ``const`` for variable declaration; Only use ``let`` for mutable variables.

## Documentation Etiquettes

We encourage you to document your code as you write. Please ensure that documentations are meaningful and not redundant.

## Additional Notes

Any code that does not conform to the above rules should not be pushed or committed. The log will be closely monitored and individual(s) may undo your changes if they consider your contribution to adversely affect the main code base.